# My-Thinkful-Story
This is the story of where I see myself now and in the future
Think about your ideal career two or three years from now. What particular skills have you built? What techniques and tools are your specialty? What accomplishments might you have made? Is your title "Data Scientist", or something different? Are you working in a particular industry, or solving a particular class of problems?

Let’s start with three years and break it down. I will have completed the Thinkful Bootcamp within the first half of 2018. In this time I will complete a project on time series, since my prep course project was on the failed banks in the US and I will keep the momentum going. My interest in Advanced NLP and my mentor Andrew will help me achieve success in creating a project for this too. It's a terrific way toto build upon skills in the following areas (python, pandas, scikit-learn)

I believe my title would be data scientist or data analyst. And I hope to gain hands on experience as a business analyst in a financial analyst or be on a data science team for a bank or fintech company. For this I will need more experience with time series and a project on how that applies to a fintech company I’d like to work for. My curiosity about recurring financial and economic problems will lead me in the direction of particular classes of problems I will enjoy solving, so I'm optimistic.

After 5 years of being an analyst I will be accepted into the data science communities and this will be a major accomplishment for me. In addition slowly get comfortable teaching what I know to others within the community. I suspect my communication skills and desire to be around others will afford me opportunities to bridge data science and other fields together since I also have a tendency towards multiple interests. 
 
For this final assignment you have writing prompts about the ideal job you envision above. Write responses to each and add them to your planning document.

Describe your ideal job in one or two paragraphs as though you're talking with an industry professional. They're familiar with the business and with the culture, they know the jargon and the buzzwords. Focus on the skills, tools, and / or industry you hope to deeply specialize in.
My ideal job is working with young like minded people who enjoy solving problems in the fintech space. 

Describe your ideal job in one or two paragraphs as though you're talking with a non-technical family member or friend. Avoid jargon and keep things simple while remaining specific. If you went deep in your specialization above, emphasize here the breadth of skills and work.
Synthesize the two exercises above into a short aspirational "professional summary" that might be appropriate on your LinkedIn profile, resume, or portfolio in the future.
When you've completed this assignment submit a link to your career planning document below and schedule a session with Matt to discuss the job search.
 
 
 
Hopefully one day I’ll have a routine like the following: 
7 a.m.: Wake up, have some orange juice and spend some time gathering my thoughts and planning for the day. Really, I’m already working, using the time to put all technical issues to the side, and remember some of my big picture goals. These can include going over first principles like putting the user first or creating consistencies in data platforms and interpreting how these impact our current tasks.
8 a.m.: Have breakfast, usually eggs, and check school-related emails from the executive MBA at Columbia Business School I attend on Saturdays… so every second of time is precious!
8:30 a.m.: I read while on the subway (the 6 train) — mostly fintech news and summaries from different sources. The fintech industry has such a large group of entrepreneurs and investors that being up to date with the direction and pivots of the industry is crucial for making decisions, like what we should focus on building. Or, should we build a system that’s objectively superior or should we build it only to be better than our competition and move on to another system?
9 a.m.: Sit down at my desk at Clarity, log into my computer and immediately start reviewing metrics and KPIs for each of our systems. I then go over emails and messages. I monitor the performance of different algorithms and models that we have built and discover bugs, inefficiencies or decide to improve parts of the system based on day to day monitoring.
10 a.m.: Sync with data engineers to discuss questions and issues about new tasks and to set the methodology requirements for new additions to our product. We also take the time to talk about an issue with our current algorithms, formalizing a solution. Our goal is to make sure the user has the best, most optimal experience.
10:30 a.m.: Execute ideas we have on new algorithms and models. Frequently, I’ll deep dive into our data to shape new metrics, building intuition about our users in a search to find patterns. We build insights based on users’ financial data and provide these insights in an actionable way to the user. This task uses statistical methods to accurately estimate and detect parameters such as income, outliers and spending patterns. We also employ high-level intelligent systems that react to users’ interactions with the insights presented by the Clarity app and present them in the most efficient way for each user.
Noon: It’s time for lunch, sometimes with a friend or catching up with a former colleague in town. We order in or walk out for lunch with the team. I set up my lunch meetings in Burger and Barrel (my favorite) right next to the, but my colleagues often talk me into to Chopt for a salad.
1 p.m.: As co-founder and chief data scientist, I need to wear different hats. Depending on the day, I attend different types of meetings that include investor meetings, interviews, and just brainstorming with the team. I have clear goals for our data science efforts and I make sure to communicate well with stakeholders and receive feedback. I also spend some time to think about larger problems that need alignment with our data science approach.
2 p.m.: Some more programming and model building or writing up, documenting ,and logistics planning. This is mostly my solo time when I am in front of my double screen, writing and running things. I enjoy this part a lot, especially after a full day of  meetings, chatting, and lunchtime burgers.
5 p.m.: The team gets back together once again, and we solve some problems together. This mainly involves following up on the day’s tasks that are being implemented and understand where we stand for tomorrow.
6 p.m.: Leave office…on a good day. It really depends on the tasks, deadlines, and problems that need to be solved that day.
6:30 p.m.: Either attend an after work dinner with a friend or former colleague from Google or Harvard or current colleagues from Columbia. Sometimes I attend a meetup and meet new people. I try to attend major meetups and conferences and make sure to have an exposure to key people in the fintech industry. Reading news on fintech companies is helpful but by talking to people from these companies, I can learn much more about the fintech scene.
If I don’t have any plans, I go home and have dinner with my wife, Elham, spending some time discussing our days. She is a research fellow at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and uses machine learning and data science to tackle problems in cancer research. It is very inspiring and refreshing to hear about how data science is being used to tackle one of the biggest health challenges of our time.
8 p.m.: Work on some of my school projects or my reading list. I like to read from people who have experienced and done great things, especially in the tech sector, and live through their challenges while reading about them. Andy Grove’s biography has inspired me a lot. The next book on my list is Shoe Dog by Nike founder, Phil Knight.
11 p.m.: Go to bed, rest from the day, and get ready to conquer the new challenges I’ll face tomorrow.
